the games industry stands out from
actors in a few different ways I'm sure
a lot
I'm very focused on what they do but I
found within videogames
people really embodied up also as an
industry it allows you to add your own
flavor to the content really have a
creative edge that I find you maybe
don't get in other industries
things have changed quite rapidly in the
sector especially over the last year or
so we've seen quite a split with the
sort of high-end triple-a console and
computer development side almost
straddling the films industry with
actors such as Ellen Page Liam Neeson
Samuel Jackson not only lending the
voice talents to games but even the
physical acting abilities through motion
capture at the other end we're seeing a
huge growth in the mobile division
mobile and social games are a huge
growth market for industry of the App
Store over 800,000 apps and whole under
a quarter games however those games
account for 80% of the revenue from the
App Store
popular rules we have at the moment our
mobile developers so for iOS and Android
and also games designers as well
I guess the first advice is make sure
you're passionate about the industry
it's not an industry for someone who
isn't extremely passionate about games
on top of that what's really going to
set you apart from other applicants is
your knowledge not only being
knowledgeable about what it is you do in
the rule that you're applying for
but being knowledge about the studio
that you're applying to about their
products and their processes this can
really set you apart from other
applicants
about the video games industry is going
to be key it's not the sort of industry
to get into if you don't love games I
think everyone in the industry does but
on top of that people seem to excel when
they're extremely knowledgeable about
the products and about what they're
doing and on top of that have pragmatism
things can go wrong on a project things
can change at the last minute but being
able to quickly adapt that is really
important
we find that a lot of our clients will
ask for someone to be degree educated
having said that we find that experience
can also trump this in a lot of cases if
you have experienced a developing your
own apps or have worked at an internship
for the studio if you have proven
experience that you can show the studio
we find that that will often
counterbalance that
I recently had someone apply for a
character artist position now as the
name entails he creates the art for the
characters and the concepts behind them
he collected his work in a portfolio and
used the characters and took mug shots
of them effectively creating what was a
police file on each character through
this he explained each character how he
created them and the motivation behind
it it was a really innovative way to put
it together and the clients I put it out
to really like the work
I recently placed the candidate here's a
program now he turned up for his
interview first stage interview spoke to
the company for half an hour and they
got on the phone and offered him
straightaway they absolutely loved him
and what really excelled and what really
stood out his application over the
others was his knowledge he came in he
knew everything about the product he
knew everything about the company and he
knew exactly how to do the job and he
managed to demonstrate that within half
an hour and they fell in love and the
best part was he absolutely loved them
as well
on occasion you do hear about things and
it goes back to having sort of good
preparation I mean sometimes people will
turn up and know nothing about a studio
which is probably the worst thing to do
like I said having a knowledge base in
place is a good start one of the other
things and we had recently was someone
turned up to an interview the best way
to describe it would be the client said
he looked like a clown
which is probably inadvisable when you
turn up to an interview it's always best
to make yourself presentable although
it's a casual industry and people will
often wear dress down it's always good
when making a first impression to make
sure you're smart and presentable
20:13 as I mentioned there's the new
consoles coming out so you can't help
but get excited about those on top of
the new consoles there's things such as
I'm a big fan of Madden and the sports
titles and EA Sports have a new engine
called ignite engine out which promises
to give a really in-depth exploration
into the titles really excited for that
as well as Ubisoft big new project
Assassin's Creed Black Flag which
currently they have over 9 development
studios and involved in the process so
it proves it's going to be a really big
project for them so I'm really excited
for that as well